This section of scrips is here to show how to create simple tasks.

## Disection of a Task

    task extactJS(type: Copy, dependsOn: [configurations.js, foo]) {
        description "Extract the JS from all the js deps"
        doLast {
            configurations.js.each {
                from(zipTree(it))
            }
            into "${buildDir}/js"
        }
    }
     
Lets discect this definition. `task extactJS(type: Copy, dependsOn: [configurations.js, foo]) {` does a lot of things.
1. Defines a task named extactJS
2. Makes the task 'extend' the existing task called [Copy](http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.Copy.html).
3. This task depends on the resulution (and download if needed) of the dependencies of the js configuration. The definition of these are not shown.
4. This task depends on the foo task running (not shown)

`description "Extract the JS from all the js deps"` makes it so that when you run `gradle tasks` you will get a description of the tasks. This happens in the [configuration](http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/userguide/build_lifecycle.html) phase of the Gradle run.

`doLast {` tells gradle to run the following in the execution phase.

`configurations.js.each {` loops over all the js dependencies.

`from(zipTree(it))` says to unzip the file in the variable it (Groovyism) and copy that into the destination

`into "${buildDir}/js"` where to copy the files into

<a name="print_dependencies">
## Print Dependencies
These two examples will use the Java plugin to give us some configurations that we need. See the [next section](#configurations) to look at what a configuration is.

### print-deps.gradle
This script has one extra task it (`printDeps`) that will print all the names dependencies that are required by junit. When you run `gradle -b print-deps.gradle printDeps` you will see something like the following from gradle.

    ~/w/g/gradle-tasks-simple git:master ❯❯❯ gradle -b print-deps.gradle printDeps
    :printDeps
    junit-4.11.jar
    hamcrest-core-1.3.jar

    BUILD SUCCESSFUL

    Total time: 0.748 secs

Reading the output you will see `:printDeps`, when you see output from gradle in this format, its a task that got run.

### print-deps-with-dep.gradle
This script contains two custom tasks. The first is helloWorld, which prints "Hello World" to standard out. The second is printDeps, it depends on helloWorld. When you run `gradle -b print-deps-with-dep.gradle printDeps` you will see something like the following as output.

    ~/w/g/gradle-tasks-simple git:master ❯❯❯ gradle -b print-deps-with-dep.gradle printDeps
    :helloWorld
    Hello World
    :printDeps
    junit-4.11.jar
    hamcrest-core-1.3.jar

    BUILD SUCCESSFUL

    Total time: 0.758 secs

You can see that there were two tasks run, `helloWorld` and `printDeps`.

<a name="configurations"/>
## Configurations
In the [Print Dependencies](#print_dependencies) secion we saw that we applied the java plugin. This is because we needed to define `compile` in the dependencies closure. Now we are going to remove the java plugin and see what a configuration is.

### configuration-print-deps.gradle
You can see that we aren't using a plugin here. We created a new configuration called `something` and we replaced the word compile with something in `print-deps.gradle`. Configurations are useful when you need to have a dependency on a project, but its not nessicarily java code. For example, it could be minified CSS/JS generated by Grunt, or some other build tool for another language.

Something else you may have noticed is how we defined the printDeps task.

    task printDeps(description: "Print dependencies") { ... }

The `<<` is shorthand for doLast and we defined the description in the parameters. This is another groovyism, its creating a hashmap with the description entry in it.
